SEO for 2025 by Daniel Forey Carter

✅ Create content with a purpose so that it can do better across other channels

✅ Split your content strategy to half maintaining what you have and half on new content

✅ Identify needs and content prioritisation and potential media embeddings prior to content creation

✅ Capitalize on less is more by using information compression - people consume more short form content than they do long form

✅ Pay attention to content NLP, sentiment, tone of voice, writing perspective

✅ Consider a integrated, vetted UGC strategy with strict content control and management, this is good for community building

✅ Create more media content to support your text content i.e. short form video, interactive tools, sharp high quality images, charts, tables, things other than just text 

✅ Focus heavily on UX ensuring that design is steered towards positive engagement signals - effectively data collection and aggregation i.e. heat mapping/click and scroll maps, funnel/flow is used to shape and improve UX

✅ Make content more digestible with dynamic content sections, make it faster and easier for people to get what they want 

✅ Shape your internal links based on data collected from behaviour flow and not just in link equity distribution 

✅ Maintain EEAT for best practice, remember Google algos are taking a lot into consideration with brand and behaviour, whilst EEAT alone may not add much value throwing it into the mix with everything else increases the probability of benefiting from it

✅ Control what content you actually have indexed - things you can typically address are:

⏩ Expire content when demand disappears - things like events can trend up until they are no longer current - content can be archived with noindex, follow or culled (410 if no external links, 301 if external links and traffic exist)

⏩ Pagination, certain category types i.e. blog categories where there isn't an aggregated demand, tag URLs can be noindex follow

⏩ Content that's aimed at something the business has done i.e. internal press where there's no external demand can also be noindex, follow

⏩ Content that's been obliterated by updates  is less likely to recover, rewrite, change the URL and reinstate providing demand and scope remains

⏩ Content that's suffered systemic decline over time is also less likely to recover, if it dies, cull, 410 the URL and reinstate an amended updated version on a new URL - this is a scale exercise 

⏩ Content indexable not being indexed where sufficient internal links exist is usually either a site wide/domain trust issue or a content value issue - it's all based on proportion, if your domain has a history of publishing lots of content where lots of content was perceived low or non value - switching to publishing value content doesn't solve the original issue for a while 

✅ Give people a people first experience - all these AI gurus spouting AI chat bots when in reality they fuck people off to the endth degree 

✅ Build brand





How to be an SEO minimalist?

No hacks, no jargon and no complicated strategy.

Just follow principles on what searchers want:
- Ensure the site is technically sound, speedy and easy to use
- Create content that covers topics potential customers are searching for that may lead to sign ups or sales
- Also create content their audience will enjoy, share and link to (treat content like a product)
- Build less but quality amount of backlinks every month





SEO has been dying since the early 2000s.

Some notable "deaths" include:
- Web 3.0
- Google Ads
- Social media
- Voice assistants
- Featured snippets
- Zero-click searches
- Every Google update
- TikTok "the new search"
- ChatGPT replacing Google
- AI Overviews in result pages

Here's the reality:
- 15% of searches are brand new
- Searches grow by ~10% every year
- There are 8.5B Google searches daily
- SEO is a $100B+ industry (and growing)
- Search engines and SEO will always evolve
- Search habits will take a long time to change

Block out the noise!

Continue learning, consistently repeating the fundamentals, and adapting to new technologies.

SEO is only “dead” for those who don't take actions!








99% Of SEO Goes Wrong
(Not because the strategy)
If you want to succeed then:

Jairo Guerrero says, here are my 10 non-negotiables:

1. Multi-channel approach	
→ For B2B: LinkedIn pipeline of content = authority + reach
"SEO is not SEO, it is always SEO + [side_channel]"

2. Reasonable budget	
→ Simple calculation: SEO Budget = (SEO Expected Revenue * 0.20)
"Do not solve big issues with tiny money"

3. Multimedia content	
→ Create Infographics, PDFs, templates, tools, etc
"With AI, text has become a comodity in marketing"

4. AI Automation	
→ 80% of the SEO is data. Data analysis can be automated
"AI generated content Processes > Traffic > Revenue"

5. Technical SEO		
→ Tech SEO ain't complex but very much needed	
"You won't rank if your site is broken"	

6. Good authors		
→ You need authors with a strong online footprint	
"Good writing is not enough"	

7. Repurposing		
→ Transform all SEO content into LN posts, newsletters, videos...	
"Do not waste your SEO content only on SEO"	

8. Business mindset		
→ SEO is business, do not ever forget about that	
"Strategy > Processes > Traffic > Revenue"	

9. Consistency		
→ Build long-term content systems, avoid the performance trap	
"What's the point of doing SEO for a month?"	

10. Patience		
→ Organic traffic is a marathon	
With patience you will win


